===================
NoWannaNoCry - nwnc
===================

A script to help mitigate against the WCry malware which is spreading
over the Internet right now.  Some operations need elevated permissions,
so don't just trust me on this, but read this document carefully and have
a look at the code itself before running it.


Disclaimer / WIP
----------------

**This is a work in progress and as such is probably not suitable to be
run on mission critical systems.  Also there's no guarantee/warranty of
any kind, as pointed out in the LICENSE.**


Known Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~

  * The PowerShell-Cmdlet used in the mitigate command is only available
    on Windows 8 and above.

  * Doesn't properly request admin privileges when run under Python 2.
    I.e. you need to open an admin console beforehand, then run the
    script from there.

  * The fix command hasn't been implemented yet.

  * Has not been tested on many different systems yet, so it's probably
    not robust enough to run on yours.


About WCry
----------

"WCry", "WannaCry", "WannaCrypt", "WanaCrypt0r", "Wanna" and some others
are all names for a malware/ransomware which has recently surfaced and is
spreading rapidly.  In a nutshell, it'll encrypt various files on your
Windows systems and wants you to pay ~300$ in Bitcoins for the decryption
key.

It does so by exploiting a critical Windows security hole using code
derived from the recently leaked trove of NSA hacking tools (`EternalBlue
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EternalBlue>`_).  From what I've read it's
not entirely clear how it's spreading.  But the bad news is that the
security hole it exploits at least inside a local network doesn't require
any user interaction.  The good news is that Microsoft has patched that
hole in a recent security update.

For further information read the following articles:

  * `An NSA-derived ransomware worm is shutting down computers
    worldwide - Ars Technica`__

  * `Player 3 Has Entered the Game: Say Hello to 'WannaCry' - Talos
    Blog`__

  * `PSA: Massive ransomware campaign (WCry) is currently being
    conducted. ... - reddit`__

__ https://arstechnica.com/security/2017/05/
   an-nsa-derived-ransomware-worm-is-shutting-down-computers-worldwide/
__ https://blogs.cisco.com/security/talos/wannacry
__ https://www.reddit.com/r/pcmasterrace/comments/6atu62/
   psa_massive_ransomware_campaign_wcry_is_currently/


About this script
-----------------

It's actually nothing special, just runs a bunch of scripts which I
gathered from the previously mentioned links and put into a command line
tool written in Python [1]_.  All credit goes to the respective parties.

The tool has the following parameters:

  * ``-c`` ``--check``: Check if the system is vulnerable.
    
  * ``-m`` ``--mitigate``: Disable the SMB v1 protocol if no fix is already
    installed.

  * Soon to come, not yet done: ``-f`` ``--fix``: ...


Python
------

`Python <https://www.python.org/>`_ is a scripting language available for
all major platforms and needs to be installed on your system to run this
script.

If you don't want to do that, I recommend to instead having a look at the
reddit thread to which I linked in `About Wcry`_.


Additional Links
----------------

  * `Microsoft Security Bulletin MS17-010`_

  * Even more information: `<https://github.com/Hackstar7/WanaCry>`__

  * Microsoft issues patches for unsupported Windows versions:
    `<https://arstechnica.com/security/2017/05/wcry-is-so-mean-microsoft
    -issues-patch-for-3-unsupported-windows-versions/>`__


.. _Microsoft Security Bulletin MS17-010:
   https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/security/ms17-010.aspx


.. [1] In Python because I've yet to take the time to properly learn
       PowerShell myself.  If someone wants to provide a script entirely
       written in PowerShell, feel free to send me a pull request.
